This folder contains assets to make the startup splash screen assets. Splash
screens are made up of HTML and CSS. This allows you the flexibility to
customize your splash screen to fit a variety of screen sizes and orientations.


splash.html
-----------
Contains an HTML fragment that is inserted into a div tag with an id="splash".
You can choose to leave this file empty. You can put <script> tags in this file,
though it is not recommended.

Currently, the HTML code is NOT minified before being inserted into the page.


splash.css
----------
Contains the styles used to control the display of the HTML. In addition to
styling the default splash div, you can style other HTML elements.

One advantage of using CSS background images in your splash screen is the images
will be inlined in the CSS using data: URIs. It's best to keep the size of your
images as small as possible. You can use PNG, JPG, or GIF images. You should use
an image optimization tool to remove unnecessary meta data from the images such
as smushit.com or crushpng.

It is recommended that you develop your splash screen on an iPhone-sized screen
so that you make your splash screen look good on small screens.

Additionally, it is recommended that you use CSS media queries to tweak the
layout for various screen sizes.

The CSS code is minified when your mobile web application is packaged.


Apple Startup Images
--------------------
After crafting your startup screen, it is recommended that you:

1) Create a sample application with an empty app.js
2) Run your sample app in both the iphone and ipad simulator
3) Take screenshots of your splash screen in both portrait and landscape
4) Crop the screenshots to remove the status bar from the top
5) Save the images in the Resources/mobileweb/apple_startup_images directory

These steps are the best way to avoid visual artifacts when the app transitions
from the Apple startup images to the splash screen assets.

It is recommended you save these images in the JPG format so that these images
download faster.
